The game begins with a board of tiles, with entities occupying non-blocking tiles (at least one mech
 and at least one enemy). The exact set of tiles and entities is given by the level file used to initialise
 the game. Next to the board of tiles, a list is presented. Each element of the list displays an entity,
 alongside its position, current health, and current strength. The list is ordered by entity priority,
 with the highest priority entity appearing at the top (see Figure 1 for an example).
 The following four phases repeat until the end of the game:
 1. Player movement phase: This is the main phase of the game where all user interaction occurs.
 The user may click on any tile on the board. The action taken after a tile is clicked is sum
marized in Table 1. See Figure 2 for an example of the movement system. During the player
 movement phase, the user may also click one of the three buttons:
 ˆ
 ˆ
 ˆ
 If the user clicks the Save button, they should be prompted to enter a name for their save
 f
 ile via a filedialog. Upon entering a name and clicking to save the file, a new level file
 should be created based on the current game state. If a mech has been moved before the
 save button is clicked, the user is warned instead via an error message box.
 If the user clicks the Load button they should be prompted to select a saved file with a
 f
 iledialog. When they select a file gameplay should restart as if the selected level file was
 the file used to initialise the game.
 If the user clicks the End Turn button, the current player movement phase is ended, and
 the program moves onto the attack phase.
 2. Attack phase: During the attack phase each entity, in descending order of priority, makes an
 attack. An attack affects a certain set of tiles depending on the entity making it. See Table 2
 for the tiles affected by each entity. If a building tile is affected by an attack, then that building
 loses health equal to the strength of the attacking entity. If an entity is on a tile affected by
 an attack, then that entity is affected in a manner depending on what entity is performing the
 attack. See Table 2 for the effects of attacks for each entity. If an entity is destroyed during
 the attack phase by an entity with higher priority, it does not attack and is removed from
 the game. After each entity has performed an attack, the program immediately moves to the
 enemy movement phase.
 3. Enemy movement phase: During the enemy movement phase, all enemies are assigned an
 objective. An objective is the position of a tile on the board and is assigned based on the type
 of entity as described in Table 3. Each enemy, in descending priority order, then moves to the
 tile that minimizes the length of the shortest path from itself to it’s objective. Note that the
 enemy can only move to tiles reachable via valid paths of length no greater than it’s speed. If
 there exists no valid path from an enemy to its objective, the enemy does not change position.
 3
After every enemy has moved, the display is updated and the program moves to termination
 checking.
 4. Termination checking: If all enemies are destroyed, at least one mech is not destroyed, and at
 least one building on the board is not destroyed, the user has won and a victory message is
 displayed via an info messagebox. If all buildings on the board are destroyed or all mechs are
 destroyed, the user has lost and a defeat message is displayed via an info messagebox. Both
 victory and defeat messageboxes ask the user if they wish to play again. If the user does want
 to play again, then the game is reinitialised using the level file and gameplay starts again from
 the beginning. If the user does not want to play again the program closes the game window
 and exits gracefully. If no messageboxes were displayed then the program immediately returns
 to the player movement phase.
 Clicked Tile
 Action to take
 Tile containing a mech that
 has not moved during the
 current movement phase
 Tiles which the mech can move to are highlighted in green. Valid tiles
 are those to which a valid path can be formed from the mech’s position
 with length less than or equal to the mech’s speed.
 Tile highlighted by click
ing a tile containing a mech
 that has not moved during
 the current movement phase
 The relevant mech is moved to that tile.
 Tile containing an enemy, or
 Tile containing a mech that
 has moved during the cur
rent player movement phase
 Tiles which will be attacked by that entity during the following attack
 phase are highlighted in red.
 Any other tile.
 Nothing.
 Table 1: Effect of clicking tiles during player movment phase. Every time the user clicks a tile, all
 previous highlighting is removed.
 4
Figure 2: Movement of a mech during the player movement phase. The user clicks on the Heal
 Mech, and then clicks on one of the highlighted squares. Clicking the heal mech again highlights the
 squares it will attack.
 5
Entity TilesAffected AttackEffect
 TankMech Thetwosetsoffivetilesextend
ing inahorizontal line fromthe
 tankmech: beginning fromthe
 tiledirectlyleftofthetankmech
 andextendingleft,andbeginning
 fromthetiledirectlyrightof the
 tankmechandextendingrightre
spectively.
 Receivedamageequal tostrengthoftankmech.
 HealMech Thefourtilesdirectlyadjacentto
 healmech (not includingdiago
nals)
 Iftargetisamech,recoverhealthequaltostrength
 ofhealmech.Donothingotherwise.
 Scorpion The four sets of two tiles ex
tending inhorizontal andverti
cal lines fromthe scorpion: be
ginningfromthetiledirectlyleft
 ofthescorpionandextendingleft,
 beginning fromthe tile directly
 rightof thescorpionandextend
ingright,beginningfromthetile
 directlyaboveofthescorpionand
 extendingupward,andbeginning
 fromthetiledirectlybelowscor
pion and extending downwards
 respectively.
 Receivedamageequal tostrengthofscorpion.
 Firefly Thetwosetsoffivetilesextend
inginaverticallinefromthefire
fly: beginning fromthe tile di
rectlyaboveofthefireflyandex
tendingupwards, andbeginning
 fromthe tile directlybelowthe
 fireflyandextendingdownwards
 respectively.
 Receivedamageequal tostrengthoffirefly.
 Table2:Entityattackbehavior
 Enemy AssignedObjective
 Scorpion Positionof tilecontainingmechwiththegreatesthealth. If two
 mechsaretiedforgreatesthealth,choosepositionoftilecontaining
 themechwiththehighestpriority.
 Firefly Positionofbuildingtilewiththeleasthealthamongstthebuildings
 thatarenotdestroyed. Iftwobuildingsaretiedfortheleasthealth,
 choose thepositionof thebuilding tile in thebottommost row.
 If there is still atie for lowesthealth, choose thepositionof the
 buildingtileintherightmostcolumn
